# Assignment 1: Language Identification with Naive Bayes

## Distributed Files
### Starter Code
The following files are edited by students as part of the assignment:
* `model.py`: includes skeleton for a `NBLangIDModel` class, very roughly following a SKLearn-like API.
* `scoring.py`: includes function signatures for `accuracy_score` and `confusion_matrix`.

The following files are used for testing:
* `test.py`: trains the `NBLangIDModel` on `train.tsv` and tests it on `dev.tsv`. Outputs accuracy and confusion matrix.
* `test_mini.py`: trains the model on the training set from the worksheet, and tests it on the example from the worksheet.  Outputs a dictionary showing the probability of each language.

`util.py` includes utility functions that are called in other scripts and that students may call in their code, but they do not edit this file. It is worth noting that this assignment was intentionally designed to work without the aid of any external Python libraries. This file could be simplified significantly by using external libraries.

### Data
Two data files are available, `train.tsv` and `dev.tsv`. These files were generated based on the [Tatoeba sentences dataset](https://tatoeba.org/en/downloads), which was distributed under a Creative Commons license. The train set includes 4355402 sentence-language pairs, and the dev set includes 931930 sentence-language pairs. The languages included are Chinese (Mandarin), English, French, German, Italian, Russian, Spanish, and Turkish.

The first five lines of `train.tsv` are provided below as a reference:
```csv
Sentence	Language
I'd like three twenties, six fives, and the rest in ones.	eng
Мы живём в квартире.	rus
Yanni and Nuja texted Skura back.	eng
They said they felt like doing that.	eng
```

## Undistributed Files
In addition to the autograder, the `test.tsv` file is kept in the private repository so that students do not have access to it to "game" the leaderboard.

## Additional Information
### Additional Worksheet & Homework Components
In addition to completing the first half of the worksheet on the Naive Bayes algorithm, students are also asked to complete exercises on evaluating classifiers by computing accuracy and creating a confusion matrix. These exercises should help students with the `accuracy_score` and `confusion_matrix` functions that they write as part of this assignment, although they do not specifically focus on language identification.

### Homework Report
In addition to writing code, all three assignments require that students write a short report. The report for this assignment requires students to:
* Reflect on the pros and cons of evaluating a model using accuracy and a confusion matrix.
* Consider properties of languages that might lead to better or worse performance.
* Determine how using a uniform prior affects their model, and reflect on when it might make sense to use a uniform prior in practice.

The report template in markdown format is available in `report.md`.

### Leaderboard
The first and second assignments both have an optional extension in which students try to improve their algorithm to compete on a gradescope leaderboard. In this assignment, student's model is trained on the training set and tested on a held out test set. Students are ranked according to accuracy (first) and speed (as a tiebreaker).
